# LOMA 280 Principles of Insurance
## Chapter 1 Introduction to Risk and Insurance
Risk is the chance or possibility of an unexpected result, either a gain or a loss.

### The Concept of Risk
Speculative risk involves three possible outcomes: loss, gain or no change.

Pure risk involves no possibility of gain; either a loss occurs or no loss occurs.

The purpose of insurance is to compensate for financial loss, not to provide an opportunity for financial gain. 

### Risk Management
Risk management is the process in which individuals and businesses identify and assess the risks they face and determine how to deal with their exposure to these risks. Four general methods can be used to manage risk: (1) avoiding the risk, (2) controlling the risk, (3) transferring the risk, and (4) accepting the risk.

The most common way for individuals, families, and businesses to transfer risk is to purchase insurance coverage.

### Insurance
A company that accepts risk and makes a promise to pay a policy benefit if a covered loss occurs is an insurer or insurance company.

A policy benefit is a specific amount of money the insurer agrees to pay under an insurance policy when a covered loss occurs.

An insurance policy, also known as a policy or insurance contract, is a written document that contains the terms of the agreement between th insurer and the owner of the policy.

The premium is the specified amount of money an insurer charges in exchange for agreeing to pay a policy benefit when a covered loss occurs.

In general, individuals and businesses can purchase insurance policies to cover three types of risks:
- Personal risk
- Property damage risk
- Liability risk 

The applicant is the person or business that applies for an insurance policy.

Once an insurer issues a policy, the person or business that owns the insurance policy is known as the policyowner. In most cases, the applicant is also the policyowner.

The insured is the person whose life, health, or property is insured under the policy. In some countries, the term assured is used to refer to the person insured.

A third-party policy is a policy purchased by one person or business on the life of another person.

The beneficiary is the person or party the policyowner names to receive the life insurance policy benefit.

A request for payment under the terms of an insurance policy is called a claim.

### Managing Risks through Insurance
#### Characteristics of Insurable Risks
In general, for a risk - a potential loss - to be considered insurable, it must have the following characteristics:
- The loss must occur by chance.
The loss must result either from an unexpected event or from an event that the insured person did not intentionally cause.
- The loss must be definite.
For most types of insurance, an insurable loss must be definite in terms of time and amount.
A contract of indemnity is an insurance policy under which the amount of the policy benefit payable for a covered loss is based on the actual amount of the financial loss that results from the covered event, as determined at the time of the event.
A value contract specifies the amount of the policy benefit that will be payable when a covered loss occurs, regardless of the actual amount of the loss that was incurred.
- The loss must be significant.
- The loss rate must be predictable.
These predictions are based on observations of past events and a concept known as the law of large numbers.
- The loss must not be catastrophic to the insurer.
A loss without these characteristics generally is not considered an insurable risk.

By using accurate mortality and morbidity tables, life and health insurers can predict the probable loss rates for given groups of insureds. Insurers use those predicted loss rates to establish premium rates that will be adequate to pay claim.

#### Insurance Underwriting
The process of assessing and classifying the degree of risk represented by a proposed insured and making a decision to accept or decline that risk is called underwriting or risk selection. Insurance company employees who are responsible for evaluating proposed risks are called underwriters.

Underwriting becomes more difficult because of antiselection, also know as adverse selection or selection against the insurer.

Antiselection is the tendency of individuals who believe they have a greater-than-average likelihood of loss to seek insurance protection to a greater extent than do other individuals. The possibility of antiselection requires an insurer to carefully review each application to assess the degree of risk the company will be assuming if it issues the requested policy.

Underwriting consist of two primary stages: (1) identifying the risks that a proposed insured present and (2) placing the proposed insured into an appropriate risk class.

The most important of these factors to identify risks are physical hazards and moral hazards.
A physical hazard is a physical characteristic that may increase the likelihood of loss. Moral hazard is a characteristic that exists when the reputation, financial position, or criminal record of an applicant or a proposed insured indicates than the person may act dishonestly in the insurance transaction.

Each insurer has its own underwriting guidelines, which are the general rules it uses when assigning proposed insureds to an appropriate risk class. Individual life insurers' underwriting guidelines usually identify at least four risk classes for proposed insureds: standard risks, preferred risks, substandard risks, declined risks.
Proposed insureds who have a likelihood of loss that is not significantly greater than average are classified as standard risks. Traditionally, most individual life and health insurance policies have been issued at standard premium rates.
Proposed insureds who present a significantly lower-than-average likelihood of loss are classified as preferred risks. Insurance company practices vary widely as to what qualifies a proposed insured as a preferred risk or standard risk.
Proposed insureds who have a significantly greater-than-average likelihood of loss but are still found to be insurable are classified as substandard risks or special class risks.
The declined risk category consists of those proposed insureds who present a risk that is too great for the insurer to cover.

#### Insurable Interest Requirement
Insurance is intended to compensate an individual or a business for a financial loss, not to provide an opportunity for gain.

An insurable interest means that the policyowner must be likely to suffer a genuine loss or detriment should the event insured against occur.


### Objectives
#### 1A. Distinguish between speculative risk and pure risk
> Speculative risk involves three possible outcomes: loss, gain, or no change. For example, when you purchase shares of stock, you are speculating that the value of the stock will rise and that you will earn a profit on your investment. At the same time, you know that the value of the stock could fall and you could lose some or all of the money you invested. Finally, you know that the stock could remain the same - you might not lose money, but you might not make a profit.
Pure risk involves no possibility of gain; either a loss occurs or no loss occurs. An example of pure risk is the possibility that you may become disabled.

#### 1B. Describe four methods used to manage financial risk
>1. Avoiding risk
>2. Controlling risk
>3. Transferring risk
>4. Accepting risk

#### 1C. Identify the five characteristics of insurable risks
>1. The loss must occur by chance.
>2. The loss must be definite.
>3. The loss must be significant.
>4. The loss rate must be predictable.
>5. The loss must not be catastrophic to the insurer.

#### 1D. Define antiselection and give examples of two factors that can increase or decrease the likelihood that an individual will suffer a loss
> Antiselection is the tendency of individuals who believe they have a greater-than-average likelihood of loss to seek insurance protection to a greater extent than do other individuals. 
A physical hazard is a physical characteristic that may increase the likelihood of loss. For example, a person with a history of heart disease possesses a physical hazard that increases the likelihood that the person will die sooner than a person of the same age and sex who does not have a similar medical history.
Moral hazard is a characteristic that exist when the reputation, financial position, or criminal record of an applicant or a proposed insured indicates that the person may act dishonestly in the insurance transaction. For example, an individual who has a confirmed record of illegal or unethical behavior is more likely than an individual without this type of background to act dishonestly in an insurance transaction.

#### 1E. Identify four risk classes for proposed insureds.
>1. preferred class
>2. standard class
>3. substandard class
>4. declined class

#### 1F. Define insurable interest and determine in a given situation whether the insurable interest requirement is met
> An insurable interest means that the policyowner must be likely to suffer a genuine loss or detriment should the event insured against occur.
To understand how insurable interest requirements are met, we need to consider two possible situations: 
(1) An individual purchases insurance on her own life. All person are considered to have more to gain by living than by dying.
(2) An individual purchases insurance on another's life. Certain family relationships are assumed by law to create insurable interest between an insured and a policyowner or beneficiary.

## Chapter 2 The Life and Health Insurance Industry
Profit is the money, or revenue, that a business receives for its products minus the expenses it incurs to create and support the products.

### Insurance Company Organization
In many countries, including the United States, three primary types of business organizations are sole proprietorships, partnerships, and corporations. Insurers are organized as corporations.

#### Types of Business Organizations
A sole proprietorship is owned and operated by one person. 
A partnership is a business that is owned by two or more people, who are known as the partners.
In most countries, insurance companies and most other major businesses are organized as corporations. A corporation is a legal entity that is created by the authority of a governmental unit(through a process known as incorporation) and that is separate and distinct from its owners.

A corporation has two major characteristics that set it apart from a sole proprietorship and a partnership:
- As a legal entity that is separate from its owners, a corporation can sue or be sued, enter into contracts, and own property. In addition, the corporation's debts belong to the corporation itself and not to its owners. The owners are not personally responsible for the corporation's debts.
- The corporation continues beyond the death of any or all of its owners. Because an insurer's contractual obligations extend many years into the future, the corporation is the ideal form of business organization for an insurance company. Recognizing the importance of such stability and permanence, laws in the United States and many other countries require insurance companies to operate as corporations.

Typically, an insurer is organized as a stock insurance company, a mutual insurance company, or a fraternal benefit society.
Most corporations, including most life and health insurers, are stock corporations. A stock corporation is a corporation whose ownership is divided into units known as shares or shares of stock. A stockholder, or shareholder, is a person or organization that owns shares of stock in a corporation. The corporation's stockholders collectively are its owners. Insurers organized as stock corporations are known as stock insurance companies.
If a stock insurance company has profits, the stockholders may receive a stockholder dividend, which is a portion of the corporation's earnings paid to the owners of its stock.
A mutual insurance company is an insurance company that is owned by its policyowners.
A fraternal benefit society, also known as a fraternal insurer, is a nonprofit organization that is operated solely for the benefit of its members and that provides social, as well as insurance, benefits to its members.


### Insurance companies as Financial Institutions
Insurance companies are financial institutions that function in the economy as part of the financial services industry.
A financial institution is a business that owns primarily financial assets, such as stocks and bonds, rather than fixed assets, such as equipment and raw materials.
The financial services industry is an industry that offers financial products and services to help individuals, businesses, and governments meet their financial goals of protecting against financial losses, accumulating and investing money and other assets, and managing debt and payments.

#### Financial Intermediaries
Financial institutions, including insurance companies, serve as financial intermediaries. A financial intermediary is an organization that collects funds from one group of people, businesses, and governments, known as suppliers, and channels them to another group, known as users. Insurers, for example, collect premiums from policyowners and pay claims to beneficiaries. In the process of moving funds from suppliers to users, financial intermediaries generate income for themselves.

#### Evolution of the Financial Services Industry
Today the financial services industry is characterized by convergence, which is a movement toward a single financial institution being able to serve a customer's banking, insurance, and securities needs.
In the financial services industry, the term consolidation typically refers to the combination of financial institutions within or across sectors. This consolidation occurs primarily through mergers and acquisitions:
- A merger is a transaction in which the assets and liabilities of two companies are combined into one company. One of the companies survives as a legal entity, and the other company ceases to exist.
- An acquisition is a transaction in which one corporation purchases a controlling interest in another corporation, resulting in an ownership link between two formerly independent corporation. After the transaction, both corporations survive as separate legal entities.
Financial institutions operate in a global environment. Large financial services enterprises, particularly those from Western Europe and North America, increasingly are expanding their customer bases worldwide.

### Role of Government in Insurance
Governments around the world perform a variety of functions, such as providing social insurance programs, acting as regulators, and influencing spending and saving through taxation. In performing these functions, governments affect the supply and demand for insurance in the private sector.

#### Social Insurance Programs
A social insurance program is a welfare plan that is established by law and administered by a government and that provides assistance to specified groups of the population, such as elderly, disabled, and unemployed.

#### Regulation of Insurance
Throughout the world, insurance regulation has two primary goals:
- To ensure that insurers remain solvent - that is, able to meet their debts and pay policy benefits when they come due.
- To ensure that insurance companies conduct their businesses fairly and ethically.

### Objectives
#### 2A. Distinguish among the three types of businesses organizations and explain why insurance companies must be organized as corporations.
> There are three primary types of business organizations, sole proprietorships, partnerships, and corporations. A sole proprietorship is owned and operated by one person. A partnership is a business that is owned by two or more people, who are known as the partners. A corporation is a legal entity that is created by the authority of a governmental unit and that is separate and distinct from its owners.
> The corporation continues beyond the death of any or all of its owners. This characteristic of the corporation provides an element of stability and permanence that a sole proprietorship and partnership can't guarantee. Because an insurer's contractual obligations extend many years into the future, the corporation is the ideal form of business organization for an insurance company. 

#### 2B. Distinguish among stock insurers, mutual insurers, and fraternal benefit societies.
> Typically, an insurer is organized as a stock insurance company, a mutual insurance company, or a fraternal benefit society. Most corporations, including most life and health insurers, are stock corporations. A stock corporation is a corporation whose ownership is divided into units known as shares or share of stock. A stockholder, shareholder, is a person or organization that owns shares of stock in a corporation. The corporation's stockholders collectively are its owners. Insurers organized as stock corporations are known as stock insurance companies. A mutual insurance company is an insurance company that is owned by its policyowners. Because a mutual insurance company does not have stockholders, it does not pay stockholder dividends. Instead, a portion of the company's operating profits may be distributed to its policyowners in the form of policy dividends. A fraternal benefit society, also known as a fraternal insurer, is a nonprofit organization that is operated solely for the benefit of its members and that provides social, as well as insurance, benefits to its members.

#### 2C. Describe the financial services industry and explain how insurance companies function within that industry.
> The financial services industry is an industry that offers financial products and services to help individuals, businesses, and governments meet their financial goals of protecting against financial losses, accumulating and investing money and other assets, and managing debt and payments. 
> The financial services industry has undergone profound changes in the past few decades. The evolution of the financial services industry is characterized by convergence, consolidation, and globalization. Convergence is a movement towards a single financial institution being able to serve a customer's banking, insurance, and securities needs. Consolidation refers to the combination of financial institutions within or across sectors. Financial institution operate in a global environment.

#### 2D. Describe the roles that the federal and state governments play in U.S. insurance regulation
> Although the power to regulate insurance in the United States is shared by the state governments and the federal government, the states have the primary authority to regulate the business of insurance. Each state has its own laws, usually referred to as the state insurance code, which regulate insurance in that state. Each state also has an administrative agency, typically known as the state insurance department, which is responsible for making sure that companies operating in the state comply with applicable regulatory requirements. Each state insurance department is under the direction of an insurance commissioner, known in some states as the superintendent of insurance or director of insurance.

#### 2E. Identify the two primary types of insurance regulation in most countries.
> Throughout the world, insurance regulation has two primary goals:
>- To ensure that insurers remain solvent - that is, able to meet their debts and pay policy benefits when they come due.
>- To ensure that insurance companies conduct their businesses fairly and ethically.


## Chapter 3 The Insurance Contract
Individual insurance policy is an insurance policy that insures the life or health of a named person. Some individual policies also insure the person's immediately family or a second named person.

A group insurance policy insures the lives or health of a specific group of people.

### Fundamental of Contract Law
A contract is a legally enforceable agreement between two or more parties.

The two parties to an individual life or health insurance contract are the insurance company that issued the policy and the individual who owns the policy, known as the policyowner.

The parties to a group insurance contract are the insurer that issued the policy and the group policyholder, which refers to the person or organization that decides what types of group insurance coverage to purchase for the group members, negotiates the terms of the insurance contract, and purchases the group insurance coverage.

The fact that a contract is legally enforceable means that the parties are bound to carry out the promises they made when entering into the contract. If a party doesn't carry out its promise, then that party has breached the contract. Laws provide innocent parties with remedies they can pursue to recoup losses resulting from a breach of contract.

#### Types of Contracts
Health insurance policies typically are contracts of indemnity, and life insurance policies are valued contracts.

##### Formal and informal Contracts
A formal contract is a written contract that is enforceable because the parties met certain formalities concerning the form of the agreement.

Life and health insurance contracts are informal contracts. An informal contract is an oral or a written contract that is enforceable because the parties met requirements concerning the substance of the agreement rather than requirements concerning the form of the agreement.

##### Bilateral and Unilateral Contracts
A bilateral contract is one in which both parties make legally enforceable promises when they enter into the contract.

A unilateral contract is one in which only one of the parties makes a legally enforceable promise when entering into the contract.

Life and health insurance policies are unilateral contracts. The insurer promises to pay a policy benefit if the insured dies, gets sick, or is injured. As long as the premiums are paid, the insurer is legally bound by its contractual promises. The purchaser of the policy, on the other hand, does not promise to pay the premiums and can't be compelled by law to pay them. In fact, the policyowner has the right to stop paying premiums and cancel the policy at any time.

##### Commutative and Aleatory Contracts
A commutative contract is an agreement in which the parties specify in advance the values that they will exchange. Contracts for the sale of goods or services usually are commutative contracts.

In an aleatory contract, one party provides something of value to another party in exchange for a conditional promise. A conditional promise is a promise to perform a stated act if a specified, uncertain event occurs. If the event does not occur, the promise will not be performed.

Life and health insurance policies are aleatory contracts. A life insurance policy is an aleatory contract because the insurer's promise to pay the policy benefit is contingent upon the death of the insured while the policy is in force. The insured's death is an uncertain event because no one can say with certainty when the insured will die.

A life insurance policy is also an aleatory contract because one of the parties may receive something of greater value than that party gave.

##### Bargaining Contracts and Contracts of Adhesion
A bargaining contract, one in which both parties, as equals, set the terms and conditions of the contract.

A contract of adhesion is a contract that one party prepares and that the other party must accept or reject as a whole, generally without any bargaining between the parties to the agreement.

Life and health insurance policies are contracts of adhesion.

#### General Requirements for a Contract
In describing the legal status of a contract, the words valid, void, and voidable are often used:
- Valid. A valid contract is one that is enforceable by law. Valid contracts satisfy all legal requirements.
- Void. The term void is used in law to describe something that was never valid. A void contract is one that does not satisfy one or more of the legal requirements to create a valid contract and, thus, is never enforceable.
- Voidable. At times, one of the parties to an otherwise valid contract may have grounds to reject, or avoid, it. A voidable contract is one in which a party has the right to avoid her obligations under the contract.

##### Mutual Assent
The requirement of mutual assent is met when the parties reach a meeting of the minds about the terms of their agreement.

For life and health insurance policies, as well as for other contracts, mutual assent is expressed through a process of offer and acceptance. An offer is a proposal to enter into a binding contract with another party. The party that makes the offer is the offeror, and the party to whom the offer is made is the offeree. An acceptance of the offer is the offeree's unqualified agreement to be bound to the terms of the offer.

If an offer is accepted according to its terms, mutual assent has occurred.

##### Contractual Capacity
For an informal contract to be binding on the parties, the parties must have contractual capacity - that is, they each must have the legal capacity to make a contract.

###### Contractual Capacity of Individual
Every individual is presumed to have the legal capacity to enter into a valid contract. The law, however, has established some exceptions to this general rule to protect certain individuals who may not understand the consequences of their actions:
1. Minors. The laws in nearly all jurisdictions establish a particular age, referred to as the age of majority or age of maturity, at which people are considered adults who are capable of managing their own affairs and accepting the legal obligations created by their actions. A minor is a person who has not attained the age of majority.

2. Mental Capacity.
- A court declares the person to be insane or mentally incompetent. A contract entered into by such a person is usually void.
- The person's mental competence is impaired, but a court has not declared her to be insane or mentally incompetent.

###### Contractual Capacity of Organizations
An insurer acquires the legal capacity to issue an insurance contract by being licensed or authorized to do business as an insurer by the proper regulatory authority.

##### Legally Adequate Consideration
For an informal contract to be valid, the parties to the contract must exchange consideration, which means that each party must give or promise something that is of value to the other party.

An applicant submits the application and the initial premium - the first premium paid for an insurance policy - as consideration for a life or health insurance policy.

Renewal premium, which are premiums payable after the initial premium, are a condition for continuance of the policy and are not consideration for the policy.

###### Lawful Purpose
No contract can be made for a purpose that is illegal or against the public interest - a contract is valid only if it is made for a lawful purpose.

The requirement of lawful purpose in making an individual life insurance contract is met if an insurable interest is present when the policy is issued. After insurance, a continuing insurable interest is not required for the contract to remain valid.

An insurable interest usually is not required in a group insurance contract because the group policyholder's interest in the contract does not encourage wagering as does a policyholder's interest in an individual insurance  contract.

### The Policy as Property
In addition to being governed by contract law, insurance policies are a type of property and, thus, are also subject to the principles of property law.

Property is defined as a bundle of rights a person has with respect to something.

Real property is land and whatever is growing on or attached to the land.

All property other than real property is characterized as personal property and includes tangible goods such as clothing, furniture, and automobiles, as well as intangible goods such as contractual rights.

An insurance policy is intangible person property - it represents intangible legal rights that have value and that can be enforced by the courts.

The owner of an insurance policy - rather than the insured or beneficiary - holds these ownership rights in an insurance policy.

Ownership of property is the sum of all the legal rights that exist in that property.

#### Right to Use and Enjoy Property
The owner of an insurance policy has the right to deal with the policy in a number of ways.

#### Right to Dispose of Property
The owner of property generally has the right to dispose of the property.

### Objective
#### 3A. Distinguish between formal and informal contracts, bilateral and unilateral contracts, commutative and aleatory contracts, and contracts of adhesion and bargaining contracts, and identify which types characterize an insurance contract.
>- A formal contract is a written contract that is enforceable because the parties met certain formalities concerning the form of the agreement. An informal contract is an oral or a written contract that is enforceable because the parties met requirements concerning the substance of the agreement rather than requirements concerning the form of the agreement.
>- A bilateral contract is one in which both parties make legally enforceable promises when they enter into the contract. A unilateral contract is one in which only one of the parties makes a legally enforceable promise when entering into the contract.
>- A commutative contract is an agreement i which the parties specify in advance the values that they will exchange. In an aleatory contract, one party provides something of value to another party in exchange for a conditional promise.
>- A bargaining contract is both parties, as equals, set the terms and conditions of the contract. A contract of adhesion is a contract that one party prepares and that the other party must accept or reject as a whole, generally without any bargaining between the parties to the agreement.

>| Type of Contract | Characterizes Life and Health Insurance Contracts |
>|             ---- |                                              ---- |
>| Contract is based on the form of the agreement (Formal contract) | No |
>| Contract is based on the informal of the agreement (Informal contract) | Yes |
>| Both parties make legally enforceable promises (Bilateral contract) | No |
>| Only one party make a legally enforceable promise (Unilateral contract) | Yes |
>| The parties exchange things of equal value (Commutative contract) | No |
>| One party provide something of value in exchange for a conditional promise (Aleatory contract) | Yes |
>| Both parties set the terms (Bargaining contract) | No |
>| One party set the terms that the other party accepts or rejects (Contract of adhesion) | Yes |

### 3B. Explain the difference between a valid contract, a void contract, and a voidable contract.
>- Valid. A valid contract is one that is enforceable by law. Valid contracts satisfy all legal requirements.
>- Void. A void contract is one that does not satisfy one or more of the legal requirements to create valid contract and, thus, is never enforceable.
>- Voidable. A voidable contract is one in which a party has the right to avoid her obligations under the contract.

### 3C. Identify the four general requirements for the creation of a valid informal contract and describe how each of these requirements can be met in the formation of an insurance contract.
>1. The parties to the contract must express mutual assent, or agreement, to the terms of the contract.
> For life and health insurance policies, mutual assent is expressed through a process of offer and acceptance.
>2. The parties to the contract must have contractual capacity.
> Every individual is presumed to have the legal capacity to enter into a valid contract. The law, however, has established some exceptions to this general rule to protect certain individuals who may not understand the consequences of their actions. Corporations are generally presumed to have the contractual capacity of a mentally competent adult. Therefore, a corporation that was created in accordance with the laws of the applicable jurisdiction has the contractual capacity to enter into a contract, including a contract to purchase insurance.
>3. The parties to the contract must exchange legally adequate consideration.
> each party must give or promise something that is of value to the other party.
>4. The contract must be for a lawful purpose.
> No contract can be made for purpose that is illegal or against the public interest - a contract is valid only if it is made for a lawful purpose.

### 3D. Identify the property rights that a policyowner has in the insurance policy he owns.
> The legal rights an owner has in property include the right to use and enjoy the property and the right to dispose of the property.

## Chapter 4 Life Insurance Premiums
An actuary is an expert in financial risk management and the mathematics and modeling of insurance, annuities, and financial instruments.

### The Legal Reserve System
In the insurance industry, however, reserves are not assets. Rather, they are liabilities representing the amount of money an insurer estimates it will need to pay its future obligations.

The legal reserve system is based on the following premises:
- The amount of benefits payable should be specified or calculate in advance of the insured event.
- Companies should collect in advance the money needed to fund a policy reserve so that they will have sufficient funds available to pay claims and expenses as they occur.
- The premium an individual pays for a life insurance policy should be directly related to the amount of risk the insurance company assumes for the policy.

### Establishing Premium Rates
A block of policies is a group of policies issued to insureds who are all the same age and sex and in the same risk classification.

A premium rate is a charge per unit of insurance coverage.(payment per unit per year) In most cases, premium rates for a block of policies are based on a $1000 life insurance coverage amount, known as a coverage unit.

Actuaries consider many variables as they perform the calculations necessary to establish premium rates. In performing these calculations, actuaries seek to ensure that premium rates are:
- Adequate. Adequate premium rates are high enough so that the insurer will have enough money to pay policy benefits as well as operating expenses.
- Equitable. Equitable premium rates ensure that each policyowner is charged a premium that reflects the degree of risk the insurer assumes in providing the coverage.
- Not excessive. If an insurer's premium rates are too high, potential customers may instead purchase policies from competitors that offer lower premium rates.

The three most important factors that actuaries consider in the calculation of life insurance premium rates are (1) the cost of benefits, (2) operating expense, and (3) investing earnings.

#### Cost of Benefits
The cost of benefits, sometimes known as the cost of insurance, is the value of all the contractually required benefits a product promises to pay.


