# Amazon Simple Storage Service
## What is Amazon S3?
> Amazon S3 provides strong read-after-write consistency for PUT and DELETE requests of objects in your Amazon S3 bucket in all AWS Regions. This behavior applies to both writes to new objects as well as PUT requests that overwrite existing objects and DELETE requests. In addition, read operations on Amazon S3 select, Amazon S3 access control lists(ACLs), Amazon S3 Object Tags, and object metadata are strongly consistent.  
## Working with buckets
### Buckets overview
> Amazon S3 supports global buckets, which means that each bucket name must be unique across all AWS accounts in all the AWS Regions within a partition. A partition is a grouping of Regions. AWS currently has three partitions: aws(Standard Regions), aws-cn(China Regions), and aws-us-gov(AWS GovCloud(US)).

> Amazon S3 creates buckets in a Region that you specify. To optimize latency, minimize costs, or address regulatory requirements, choose any AWS Region that is geographically close to you.  

### Configuring Transfer Acceleration
> Transfer Acceleration takes advantage of the globally distributed edge locations in Amazon CloudFront. As the data arrives at an edge location, the data is routed to Amazon S3 over an optimized network path.

## Working with objects
### Using presigned URLs
#### Sharing objects
> By default, all S3 objects are private, Only the object owner has permission to access them. However, the object owner can optionally share objects with others by creating a presigned URL, using their own security credentials, to grant time-limited permission to download the objects.  

## Managing storage
### Using S3 Versioning
#### Configuring MFA delete
> To use MFA delete with versioning, you enable MFA Delete. However, you cannot enable MFA Delete using the AWS Management Console. You must use the AWS Command Line Interface(AWS CLI) or the API.  

#### Working with versioning-enabled objects
##### Deleting object verions
###### Managing delete markers
> When you delete an object in a version-enabled bucket, all versions remain in the bucket, and Amazon S3 creates a delete marker for the object. To undelete the object, you must delete this delete marker.  

> To delete a delete marker permanently, you must include its version ID in a DeleteObject versionId request.  

### Using Object Lock
> With S3 Object Lock, you can store objects using a write-once-read-many(WORM) model. Object Lock can help prevent objects from being deleted or overwritten for a fixed amount of time or indefinitely.

### Amazon S3 Intelligent-Tiering
#### How S3 Intelligent-Tiering works
> For a low monthly object monintoring and automation charge, S3 Intelligent-Tiering monintors access patterns and automatically moves objects to the Infrequent Access tier when they have not been accessed for 30 consecutive days. After 90 days of no access, the objects are moved to the Archive Instant Access tier without performance impact or operational overhead.

> After you activate the optional archive capabilities, S3 Intelligent-Tiering moves objects that have not been accessed for 90 consecutive days to the Archive Access tier. After 180 consecutive days of no access, the objects are moved to the Deep Archive Access tier.

### Replicating objects
> To automatically replicate new objects as they are written to the bucket use live replication, such as Same-Region Replication(SRR) or Cross-Region Replication(CRR). To replicate existing objects to a different bucket on demand, use S3 Batch Replication.

## Monitoring Amazon S3
### Logging server access
#### Enabling server access logging
> Your target bucket should not have server access logging enabled. You can have logs delivered to any bucket that you own that is in the same Region as the source bucket, including the source bucket itself. However, this would cause an infinite loop of logs and is not recommended.  

## Optimizing Amazon S3 performance
> Your application can achieve at least 3,500 PUT/COPY/POST/DELETE or 5,500 GET/HEAD requests per second per partitioned prefix.